---
title: AWS Architecture EC2 & EBS
date: 2019-05-22 09:02:37
category: 
- AWS_Architecture
tags:
- AWS
- EC2
- EBS
---

I. Basics
II. S3 and Glacier Storage
III. **EC2 & EBS**
IV. VPC (network)
V. Elastic Load Balancing, CloudWatch, AutoScaling
VI. AWS Identity/IAM
VII. Database
VIII.SWS, SWF, SNS
IX. DNS, Route 53
X. ElastiCache
XI. Security
XII. Risk & Compliance
XIII. Architecture Best Practices

In the last post, I gave a general overview of AWS services, and a quick summary of the S3 object storage services. Next, we are going to jump into Elastic Compute Cloud (EC2) and Elastic Block Store (EBS). These two provide the basic elements of compute and block-level storage to run your workloads.

## EC2 
EC2 uses *instances* of a computer, you use an *AMI image* to populate an instance with configurated CPU, memory, etc. Different instance types based on those config values. *AMI* images can be found by AWS, on Marketplace, generated by existing instance. EC2 can be addressed by DNS name, public IP, elastic IP address.  Initial access is by using a *key-pair* which is what I used in the CLI. There is virtual firewall protection via *security groups*  which allow control based on port, protocol, source/destination. 

**Lifecycle of Instance** 
First you *bootstrap* wherein you include code which can config the instance. Can also import virtual machine.  Use CloudWatch to monitor EC2.  Can modify an instance and update type, security group. Add *termination protection*.  Different **pricing options** including *on-demand*, *reserved instances*, *spot instances*.

**Tenancy Options** 
*Shared tenancy*, *Dedicated instance*, *Dedicated host*.

A *placement group* is a logical grouping of instances within a AZ.  Helps with latency teimes. Represents network connectivity between instances. 

An *instance store* is temporary block-level storage for instance, it will be lost, ideal for buffers, caches so don't rely on it for valuable, long-term data.

## EBS
Elastic Block Store is persistent block-level storage for use with EC2. Can only attach to a single instance at a time.

**Types**
- *Magnetic volumes*: cheap, slow
- *General Purpose*: SSD volumen, 1GB - 1TB, three IOPS/GB with 10,000 cap. Can burst up to 3,000 IOPS for extended periods of time for volumes under 1TB. Billed based upon amount of space provisioned as opposed to used.
- *Provisioned IOPS SSD* - I/O intensive, expensive, highest performance.

You can back up data on EBS volumes by taking point-in-time snapshots -> AMI image, stored in S3 bucket. You can create a volume from one of these snapshots. 